# MatPOWER

The load flow is the most important network computation in power system. The load flow studies calculate magnitude and angle of voltage at each node other quantities such as current, real and reactive power produced and absorbed at each node, power losses can be calculated[1–3].
A load flow study calculates the steady state behavior of a power system. This is necessary that system must operate under system limits. These limits in Power, current and losses occurring can be fixed by load flow calculation. These calculations are needed for many control and planning application. For example, whenever any power system equipment in a network has to be taken out for maintenance, it is important to know whether the power system can still work within the system limits or any additional measures is required. The power system has to be n-1 secure. To analyze n-1 security Concept, the load flow of a system required to be studied. This means that if any component fails, whether the system will function within limits can be computed by load flow analysis[1–3].
The power demand in world is keep on rising. So Power system becomes more and more interconnected. A small set of simultaneous failure can propagate through entire system, causing a massive blackout. Therefore providing security against overloading is important. 
The renewable energy sources (RES) generally produces power which depends on weather conditions and is unpredictable. So it is needed to integrate with Conventional energy sources. The integration of RES with conventional grid network also require intensive study of load flow [1–3]. 

